# Programming Assignment - K.S.N Manikanta (210010050)
____________________________________________________

# Secure Chat and Video Streaming Application
  ____________________________________________

	Socket programming is used to create a client-server application that provides secure messaging between clients and video streaming on demand from a client. We use RSA encryption for secure communication management.

# Features:
  _________

	1) Real-time messaging: Clients can send each other messages in real time through the server.
	2) Secure Communication: Messages exchanged between clients are encrypted using the RSA algorithm.
	3) Video Streaming: Clients can stream videos hosted by the server on demand.
	4) Ease of usage: It's very easy to connect and disconnect(quit) with the server.

# File Components:
  ________________
	
	We have two source files: one for the client(210010050_client.py) and one for the server(210010050_server.py).

Python packages used:
-------------------- 
socket, threading, json, cv2, numpy, Crypto libraries

Client:
-------

1. In the client code, we connect to the server using a TCP connection and socket. We send the name of the client and the public key generated by RSA to the server, where it is stored in a dictionary.
2. The client is provided with 3 options: Send a message to a client, Stream a Video and Quit/Disconnect.
3. Whenever a client wants to communicate with another client, it fetches its public key, encrypts a message using that public key, generates a cipher text  and sends it to the server. The server then broadcasts it to all the other clients. The target client will decrypt the message using its private key.
4. Whenever a client wants to stream a video, it requests the server for the available videos. After getting the list from the server, it selects one from it and starts streaming. Python OpenCV library is used to stream videos.
5. A separate thread is defined to handle information received from the server whether it be the updated clients dictionary or the video frames or even a message from other clients, which it decrypts using its private key.
6. If any other client leaves the chat, it receives the message from the server and deletes it from the list of clients that it maintains from its side.
7. At the end whenever a client wants to leave, it sends a QUIT message to the server and then disconnects with the server.

Server:
-------

1. A server socket is created which accepts multiple client connections. After the clients connect to the server, it asks for their name and public key. After getting the required details, it stores them in a dictionary and uses them to broadcast to all the other clients who are already connected. It even sends the list of already connected clients to the newly connected client.
2. Whenever a client wants to send a message to another client, it accepts the message from that client and broadcasts it to all the other clients.
3. When a client requests a video for streaming, it provides the client with a list of videos available and later, when the client selects the video the server starts playing that video for that client, i.e., it sends the video frames to the client.
4. At the end when a client sends a QUIT message, it deletes the client from the clients dictionary and broadcasts to all other clients that a particular client has left the chat.


How to run:
-----------

1. Start the server by running the command: python 210010050_server.py
2. Run multiple instances of clients by running the command: python 210010050_client.py
3. Provide name for the client after running the client program and a public key is automatically generated.
4. Now, choose from the options provided for the client and explore.

Limitations:
------------

An issue occurs when a new client joins when one or more clients are streaming a video.

Demo Video link:
----------------

==> https://drive.google.com/file/d/17loD5tUHSrFcbE0HcMhYm8yK-R-YmY_5/view?usp=drive_link
